


#ADMINISTRATORS

#id                             integer                       
#admin_key                      string                        
#created_at                     datetime                      
#updated_at                     datetime                      



#FORUMS

#id                             integer                       
#forum_name                     string                        
#forum_url                      string                        
#forum_permissions              string                        
#created_at                     datetime                      
#updated_at                     datetime                      


# demote this to a map_layer populated with filled polygons of different colors and a string field for half_block_id
#HALF_BLOCKS

#id                             integer                       
#half_block_id                  string                        
#boundary_t                     string                        
#created_at                     datetime                      
#updated_at                     datetime                      
#the_geom                       multi_polygon                 
#fill_color                     string                        



MAP_LAYERS (==shapefile or postGIS data, options)
                               data type:    example:

id                             integer                       
name                           string      'half_blocks'                   
short_desc                     text        'a way to identify half-block areas'                  
projection                     string       srid:4326                  
#database_table                 string                        
#database_column                string                        
opacity                        integer                       
symbol_type                    string                        
symbol_file                    string                        
line_color                     string                        
fill_strategy                  string                        
fill_color                     string                        
created_at                     datetime                      
updated_at                     datetime                      
lower_left_coords              point                         
upper_right_coords             point                         

typical mapfile layers:

  LAYER
    NAME 'ortho2'
    TYPE RASTER
    DUMP true
    TEMPLATE fooOnlyForWMSGetFeatureInfo
    EXTENT 1259300 254000 1269500 262500
    DATA 'ortho2clip.tif'
    METADATA
      'wms_title' 'ortho2'
      'wms_srs'   "epsg:4326"
      'OWS_INCLUDE_ITEMS' "all"
    END
    STATUS on
    TRANSPARENCY 100
    PROJECTION
    'proj=longlat'
    'ellps=WGS84'
    'datum=WGS84'
    'no_defs'
    END
  END

  # this layer/class shows the half_block_id label
  LAYER
    NAME 'half_block_id'
    TYPE POLYGON
    DUMP true
    TEMPLATE fooOnlyForWMSGetFeatureInfo

    EXTENT 1259532.633428 252753.973920 1272953.746014 262713.223921
    CONNECTIONTYPE POSTGIS
    CONNECTION "host=localhost dbname=greenwood_dev user=paul password=****** port=5432"
    DATA "the_geom from half_blocks"
    METADATA
      'ows_title'  'half_block_id'
      'wms_title'  'half_block_id'
      'wms_srs'    "EPSG:4326"    
      'OWS_INCLUDE_ITEMS' "all"
    END
    STATUS on
    TRANSPARENCY 100
    PROJECTION
    'proj=longlat'
    'ellps=WGS84'
    'datum=WGS84'
    'no_defs'
    END
    
   LABELITEM 'half_block_id'
    CLASS
       NAME 'half_block_id' 
       STYLE
         SYMBOL 0 
         SIZE 10.0 

       END
     LABEL 
      FONT arial-bold
      TYPE truetype
      SIZE 11
      COLOR 50 50 255
      ANGLE 0
      BUFFER 10
      POSITION cc
      FORCE true
      ANTIALIAS true
      PARTIALS false
      MINDISTANCE 1000000
     END 
    END
  END
  
  
  
  # this layer draws a polygon colored according to the 'fill_color' column of table 'half_blocks'
  LAYER
    NAME 'half_block_color'
    TYPE POLYGON
    DUMP true
    TEMPLATE fooOnlyForWMSGetFeatureInfo

    EXTENT 1259532.633428 252753.973920 1272953.746014 262713.223921
    CONNECTIONTYPE POSTGIS
    CONNECTION "host=localhost dbname=greenwood_dev user=paul password=kgb0186 port=5432"
    DATA "the_geom from half_blocks"
    METADATA
      'ows_title'  'half_block_id'
      'wms_title'  'half_block_id'
      'wms_srs'    "EPSG:4326"    
      'OWS_INCLUDE_ITEMS' "all"
    END
    STATUS on
    TRANSPARENCY 50
    PROJECTION
    'proj=longlat'
    'ellps=WGS84'
    'datum=WGS84'
    'no_defs'
    END
    CLASS
      NAME 'half_block_color'  
      STYLE
        SYMBOL 0
         OUTLINECOLOR 0 0 0
         COLOR [fill_color]
       END
    END
  END






  LAYER
    NAME 'walk_survey'
    TYPE LINE
    DUMP true
    TEMPLATE    'walk_survey_query_response_template.html'
    HEADER      'header.html'
    FOOTER      'footer.html'

    EXTENT 1259532.633428 252753.973920 1272953.746014 262713.223921
    CONNECTIONTYPE POSTGIS
    CONNECTION "host=localhost dbname=greenwood_dev user=paul password=kgb0186 port=5432"
    DATA "routes from walk_surveys "

    FILTER "%filter_string%"

    METADATA
      'ows_title'  'walk_survey'
      'wms_title'  'walk_survey'
      'wms_srs'    "EPSG:4326"    
      'OWS_INCLUDE_ITEMS' "all"
      'default_filter_string' '1=1'
    END
    STATUS on
    TRANSPARENCY 100
    PROJECTION
    'proj=longlat'
    'ellps=WGS84'
    'datum=WGS84'
    'no_defs'
    END
    
   LABELITEM 'route_frequencies'
    
    CLASS
       NAME 'route_frequencies' 
       STYLE
         SYMBOL 0 
         SIZE 7.0
         WIDTH 8
         OPACITY 15

         OUTLINECOLOR 255 0 0
         COLOR 255 0 0
       END
     LABEL 
      FONT arial-bold
      TYPE truetype
      SIZE 15
      COLOR 0 0 0
      OUTLINECOLOR 255 255 255
      OUTLINEWIDTH 5
      REPEATDISTANCE 500
      ANGLE 0
      BUFFER 10
      POSITION cc
      FORCE true
      ANTIALIAS true
      PARTIALS false
      MINDISTANCE 1000000
     END 
    END
  END



#MAPPED_LINES

#id                             integer                       
#end_label                      string                        
#data                           string                        
#owner_id                       string                        
#map_layer_id                   string                        
#created_at                     datetime                      
#updated_at                     datetime                      
#geometry                       line_string                   



NEIGHBORS

id                             integer                       
first_name1                    string                        
last_name1                     string                        
email_1                        string                        
first_name2                    string                        
last_name2                     string                        
email_2                        string                        
address                        string                        
zip                            string                        
half_block_id                  string                        
phone_1                        string                        
phone_2                        string                        
email_list                     string                        
block_captain                  string                        
volunteer                      text                          
resident                       string                        
professional                   string                        
interest_expertise             text                          
created_at                     datetime                      
updated_at                     datetime                      
alias                          string                        
years                          string                        
sidewalks                      string                        
unit                           string                        
improvements                   text                          
why_walk                       text                          
dont_walk                      text                          
signup_date                    date                          
user_id                        integer                       
location                       point                         


demote this to a map_layer:
#PROJECTS

#id                             integer                       
#name                           string                        
#short_desc                     text                          
#forum_url                      string                        
#created_at                     datetime                      
#updated_at                     datetime                      
#project_boundary               polygon                       


not needed:
PROJECTS_USERS

id                             integer                       
project_id                     integer                       
user_id                        integer                       



ROLES

id                             integer                       
name                           string                        



ROLES_USERS

id                             integer                       
role_id                        integer                       
user_id                        integer                       



USERS

id                             integer                       
login                          string                        
name                           string                        
email                          string                        
crypted_password               string                        
salt                           string                        
created_at                     datetime                      
updated_at                     datetime                      
remember_token                 string                        
remember_token_expires_at      datetime                      
activation_code                string                        
activated_at                   datetime                      
neighbor_id                    integer                       


this becomes theme_maps:
VIEWS

id                             integer                       
owner_id                       string                        
published                      string                        
map_layer_list                 text                          
scale                          float                         
mapfile_name                   string                        
created_at                     datetime                      
updated_at                     datetime                      
lower_left                     point                         
upper_right                    point                         


